1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?  
>I have been in the software industry for over 9 years as a functional (manual) tester. I have been interested in programming and automation for last few years. Being in the manual test team, I always ended with running automation created by other SDET or developers and some tangential attempts at created record and play back type scripts. I need to dedicate both time and effort in training myself into a full developer role. Software industry is also trending in that direction where coding is becoming a foundational skill for testers.

2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?  
>I see myself moving into a senior SDET or senior developer role. I have fair degree of industry knowledge of various technologies and product areas. I am being held back by my lack of skill in coding.

3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?   http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program
>I recognize the value Ada provides to the community thru this training. I have been mentoring junior engineers at my workplaces for last few years. As I gain confidence in a development role, I intend to contribute as a volunteer in getting interested candidates up to speed make a transition into development careers. When I am in hiring and decision making roles, I can also help hire Ada trainees as interns/FTEs.

4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?  
>In one of my projects, I was the core tester responsible for release checklist testing. We had a manual suite of tests that took half a day to run through.  We had a last minute change to some unrelated area. We tested the change and to keep the release date same, we shipped after a brief sanity test pass around the change. We could not run the release checklist as it would delay the release by a day.
One of the checks had been broken, and was discovered by the customer. We had to recall/reship. The great learning was to have even the release checklist fully automated where we could trigger it even for a benign looking last minute change and not run into this embarrassing situation. This is one of the reasons why I am so committed to transforming myself into a competent developer.
